Thanks so much for watching this course.
And I just wanted to
do a quick summary for
you of all of the things that you've
learned over this entire course.
So first of all, semantic HTML is gonna
help with search engine optimization,
helps with accessibility, and
it allows for interesting selectors,
broadening that CSS range for
fine-tune styling.
You don't have to use 15
different classes on something.
You don't have to worry about if somebody
reorders the buttons that are all
in a row.
If they're still gonna be styled
in the way that you want.
If you're writing robust selectors
that are based on your HTML,
then you're going to wind up
with flexible styling that
is gonna stay in place even as users
wind up changing your document.
Remember that CSS selectors are broad,
classes don't have to
be your first choice.
In fact,
classes should be your last choice.
Classes are the exceptions to the rule.
Classes give you an easy way of selecting
something to make it an exception to
the rule.
You have so
many other tools in your tool chest for
getting things to style
the way you want it.
CSS is about pattern matching.
And I would encourage you to have this as
one of the big takeaways from this course,
when you're matching patterns of
your HTML, that's what CSS does.
It's gonna look for those patterns in your
HTML and apply the styles accordingly.
When you use classes,
you kinda disrupt that process.
You're adding a little
pointer that says right here,
this thing right here,
that is where I want my style.
Sometimes that is exactly what you need,
but
it doesn't necessarily have
to be that way all the time.
So remember that you can pattern match,
and
pattern matching may lead to a more
robust solution to what you're doing.
Inheritance, is gonna cause, more weird
things to happen than you'd expect.
So, as you think about things that you
kind of know about CSS and the cascade,
you think about the order of styles,
you think about their specificity.
Inheritance tends to be
the one that is forgotten.
And inheritance is very powerful and
it can lead to some of
those unexpected results.
So, if you can remember that the inherited
styles typically apply to text in
some way or another.
The font styles,
the text styles and so forth,
those are the ones you need to watch out
for when you are debugging your CSS.
Specificity and
the Cascade are predictable.
They are not simple, they are not
without rules but they are predictable.
Once you truly understand what's going
on with specificity in the cascade,
you know exactly what's going to
happen to your styles along the way.
And of course, you can visualize
that inside of your developer tools.
And finally you can explain everything
that is happening in CSS with
enough time studying these rules.
I gave you an exercise along the way that
helps you explain what's happening with
the styling and why.
I would encourage you to continue that
process, to sharpen these skills.
The next time you are working with CSS,
take a look at something and
see if you can explain why it looks
the way it looks inside of your document.
It'll help cement these
rules inside your mind.
And it will encourage you and
increase your confidence so
that you're gonna be better
at these rules in the future.
Thanks again so much for watching you,
it's been a lot of fun
presenting this material to you.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> We should ask.